# GRASPER: Generating Academic Slides From Papers

Here is link to a short demo of this generator: https://youtu.be/Q0k95FIjuIA

## How to run
### Method 1: Run with docker (recommended)
#### 1. Pull the docker image

`docker pull symu/pdf-ppt-generator`
#### 2. Allow access to screen for display

`xhost local:root`
#### 3. Run the container

`docker run -it -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix --name pdf-ppt-generator symu/pdf-ppt-generator bash`
#### 4. Run the pdf ppt generator inside the container
`python3 pdf_ppt_generator.py --summarizer=<summarizer> --converter=<converter> (--openaikey=<openaikey>)`

Parameters:
* summarizer: model used for summarizing pdf text. Available options are: `bart`, `t5`, `llama2`, `mistral`
* converter: model used for converting summary into slides content. Available options are: `gpt3`, `llama2`, `mistral`
* openaikey: OpenAI API key to access GPT3 model. Compulsory if `gpt3` is used as the converter.

The output can be found in: **output/summarizer converter/** folder

For example, to run the generator with BART summarizer and LlaMa2 converter, the command is:

`python3 pdf_ppt_generator.py --summarizer=bart --converter=llama2`

And the output will be found in output/bart llama2/ folder

***

### Method 2: Run with virtualenv
#### 1. Clone this repository

`git clone git@github.com:StephanieMussi/pdf_ppt_generator.git`

`cd pdf_ppt_generator`

#### 2. Download LlaMa2 and Mistral GGUF models

`sudo apt update && sudo apt install wget`

`mkdir -p /models`

`wget -O /models/llama-2-7b-chat.Q4_K_M.gguf "https://huggingface.co/TheBloke/Llama-2-7B-Chat-GGUF/blob/main/llama-2-7b-chat.Q4_K_M.gguf?raw=true"`

`wget -O /models/mistral-7b-instruct-v0.2.Q4_K_M.gguf "https://huggingface.co/TheBloke/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2-GGUF/blob/main/mistral-7b-instruct-v0.2.Q4_K_M.gguf?raw=true"`

#### 3. Create and activate virtual environment

`python3 -m venv venv`

`source venv/bin/activate`
#### 4. Install dependencies
`pip install -r requirements.txt`

`sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y gcc g++ python3-tk`
#### 5. Run the pdf ppt generator
`python3 pdf_ppt_generator.py --summarizer=<summarizer> --converter=<converter> (--openaikey=<openaikey>)`

Parameters:
* summarizer: model used for summarizing pdf text. Available options are: `bart`, `t5`, `llama2`, `mistral`
* converter: model used for converting summary into slides content. Available options are: `gpt3`, `llama2`, `mistral`
* openaikey: OpenAI API key to access GPT3 model. Compulsory if `gpt3` is used as the converter.

The output can be found in: **output/summarizer converter/** folder

## Folder structure

* **source/**: all the papers we tested with in our project, as well as the powerpoint template.
* **output/**: all the slides generated from the papers in **source/** folder, for each combination of summarizer and converter.
* **compare_summarizer/**: comparison of the summarizer models (bart, t5, llama2, mistral)
    * **input/**: text extracted from the papers in **source/** folder
    * **reference/**: summary generated by gpt4
    * **output/**: summary generated by each model, as well as performance file indicating time used in seconds, length of summary, and similarity to reference summary (ROUGE score, BLEU score, METEOR score)
    
* **compare_converter/**: comparison of the converter models (gpt3, llama2, mistral)
    * **input/**: summary generated by gpt4
    * **reference/**: slides content converted by gpt4 using gpt4 summary
    * **output/**: slides content converted by each model, as well as performance file indicating time used in seconds, length of slides content, and similarity to reference slides content (ROUGE score, BLEU score, METEOR score)
    
